Now as I said there are many hosting providers.
I will start with hosting the note.
J.S. application and now we'll use he Roko to host it.
A quite popular service but definitely not the only one.
Let's visit you Rocco's web page and there we can sign up for free and we can also host the application
in the basic requirements we have here for free as well.
If you have a real application you of course might want to check out their pricing and probably choose
a different option than the free one because there you have a lot of limitations.
For example your server goes in sleep mode after 30 minutes of no requests basically and then restarts
for the next incoming request which of course makes this specific request a bit slower and in general
it's great for testing and playing around for a real application you will probably need a paid account
there.
But here we can go with the free one and once you did sign up you should see a screen that looks something
like this where you can create a new app give it any name you want here I'll name it a Cadman she was
a region where it is will be hosted for me us is fine and click Create app notice sets up a app here
you can ignore these steps here.
Now forward deployment method I will use you Roku get and that means that you need get installed on
your machine so in case you're not using get get as our version control system which allows you to control
your source code create different snapshots and so on and you can use it for that and I would recommend
using it in bigger projects but if you don't have it yet you at least should install it to use it for
deploying to Iraq go on the official get paid you learn all about the installation you can simply download
it for your operating system walk free installer and check with the docs if you're having issues with
that it should be pretty straightforward though once you get get installed you also need to install
the Hiroko Seelye so we can click on that link to learn how that works and then just simply download
the installer here or run this command or for Windows or Linux use your options and then simply install
that Seelye onto your machine as well so that at the end you're able to run both you Roko as a command
as well as get as a command in your command prompt or terminal so then let's run he Roku log in first
and I will do this here at my back and project somebody run he Roku log in go through that log and process
their offer and once you are locked in continue to the next step here you need to initialize your project
as a get repository and then run this command to basically connect us here Roku app to your local get
repository so that you are later able to push code to your Heroku app and run it there.
So let's do that let's run get in it here in this back and project now important also add a dot get
ignore file here and ignore node modules.
This ensures that when you control something with get the node modules folder is not controlled because
uploading this to the back end would take super long and he Roku will automatically install all dependencies
your project needs it will automatically have a look at packaged or Jason and install all these dependencies
so it will create the node modules folder automatically on the backend so make sure you add this and
then simply run this command here he Roko get remote ends on
once you did this run these first two commands and you can provide a different commit message here to
if you want by the way so let's first of all run get ad and then get commit prepared for deployment
now before we push it to your Roku make sure that your package does Jason File you'll also tweak to
start script here to just node app J.S. because he Roku will execute us too then later we'll start your
node application and we need to also ensure one other thing remember d environment variables they were
used by node man now we're not using Node mon only Roko we're using Node there we shouldn't use node
one there it's not a production ready tool.
So these environment variables would not be used right now they would all be missing data for our app
definitely wouldn't work for example connecting to the database would already fail because these environment
variables at the moment on Hiroko simply wouldn't be provided so to fix this we have to go to you Roko
can keep this page open but then here up opened is overview part in a new tab this overview part of
your project there you can learn more about the project and under Settings you can now set so-called
config VARs and these are your environment variables.
And here you want to create these environment variables you have in your node one Jason File as well
so add db user here and enter the value you have here in node man Jason as well like this
also add DB password thereafter and provide the correct value here.
And of course use the value you want to use for production.
So if you created a different user for production here on what would you be Atlas entered a username
and password of your production user here of course because these are the values that will be used in
production so db name as the next guy at your and for a db name.
I indeed want to use that special database I prepared for production I named it more and Prot.
So I will also name ID Merlin prod here and click Add
the Google API key.
All this should be provided.
And here I also want to use my production ready one which I can quickly get from my front end here because
there I already did enter it.
So this is my production Google API key.
Let's enter is here and last but not least we need to provide our JWT key value here and this is my
production secret key or whatever you want to name it.
Click add.
So now we have all these enviroment variables setup.
And with that we should be able to run our application at least almost.
One thing would still not work on long would it be Atlas.
Keep in line the deer under network access we're allowing our local IP address but not the IP address
of our hero code deployment.
And of course Dad will be the server who wants to connect to the database in the future no one important
thing to keep in mind here is that he Roko uses dynamic IP ranges and you can learn more about how you
could get a fixed a static IP here with the help of a certain add on or if you have a private space
so a premium paid plan in the end how you could set up a static IP here for our local free sandbox environment.
I will simply add an IP address here and allow access from anywhere.
Now of course you could say that's a bit insecure.
But keep in mind this allows anyone to communicate to my database but that person will still need a
valid user and a password for that user.
So you still need these credentials.
So it's just one extra layer of security which I gave up here but you could restrict that if you have
a static IP here in the free sandbox we just don't have that.
So I will open that up to everyone and once this is done once everyone can talk to our database we can
finally try deploying this to Heroku.
So let's wait for this to finish.
So with this finished let's go back to our instructions here on how to deploy and let's try this get
pushy Roku monster command here.
However before we push it make sure you also get ad again to reflect your changes to package dot Jason
changed starting script otherwise you will push your old code your old snapshot where we still use node
1 for starting this up and thereafter let's try to get push Roku monster command
so this will now deploy this application will install node modules there will automatically detect that
you're using Node because you've a package not Jason File will build everything and in the end it will
launch your application.
Now let's wait for this process to finish here and with it finished it gives you a U R L where your
page and the end is hosted are where your application is running of course you can also connect the
custom domain and so on and you can learn all about Dad and your official he Roku docs if you want to
do that with that let's visit our page here and eventually you will see that you get an error now this
error makes sense if we have a look at our aptly as file we see that we're listening to port five thousand
notice it was good during development but now it isn't anymore on your Roku we want to use a different
port thankfully he Roko gives you a default environment variable which provides the port on which your
application is served you can just enter process thought NS dot port here port.
All caps and just use 5000 as a fallback value here.
So if that is not provided we will use this IED during development if that is provided which Heroku
will do for us then this will be used instead.
And then our application will be served on a port.
He Roca wants to serve it on and Delphine will be reachable.
So with this let's at this change added port ends and then let's repeat does get pushy Roku Mossberg
command
so does Will now update our application on the server with this new world and all of it will replace
the old one with it and we'll start it of course and hopefully then it will work.
And indeed if I now visit slash API slash users I get back an empty array which makes sense because
we have no users yet in our production database so our API seems to work seems to be up and running.
Now let's test this with our reactive and let's deploy the reactive as well.